README.md, before:

# DHIS2 Application Platform

[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@dhis2/cli-app-scripts.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@dhis2/cli-app-scripts)
[![build](https://img.shields.io/travis/dhis2/app-platform.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/dhis2/app-platform)
[![semantic-release](https://img.shields.io/badge/%20%20%F0%9F%93%A6%F0%9F%9A%80-semantic--release-e10079.svg)](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release)

Unified application architecture and build pipeline to simplify and standardize application development within the DHIS2 ecosystem.

See [platform.dhis2.nu](https://platform.dhis2.nu) for documentation.

## Report an issue

The issue tracker can be found in [DHIS2 JIRA](https://dhis2.atlassian.net)
under the [LIBS](https://dhis2.atlassian.net/browse/LIBS) project.

To report an issue create a ticket using the proper type (bug, feature) depending on your use case. You can create a new ticket by clicking `Create` on top of JIRA, then proceed to select the `LIBS` project and then define the ticket type. Make sure to select `app-platform` components drop-down accordingly.

Commit message:

docs: fix dhis2.nu links

README.md, after:

# DHIS2 Application Platform

[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@dhis2/cli-app-scripts.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@dhis2/cli-app-scripts)
[![build](https://img.shields.io/travis/dhis2/app-platform.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/dhis2/app-platform)
[![semantic-release](https://img.shields.io/badge/%20%20%F0%9F%93%A6%F0%9F%9A%80-semantic--release-e10079.svg)](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release)

Unified application architecture and build pipeline to simplify and standardize application development within the DHIS2 ecosystem.

See [the reference docs on the Developer Portal](https://developers.dhis2.org/docs/app-platform/) for documentation.

## Report an issue

The issue tracker can be found in [DHIS2 JIRA](https://dhis2.atlassian.net)
under the [LIBS](https://dhis2.atlassian.net/browse/LIBS) project.

To report an issue create a ticket using the proper type (bug, feature) depending on your use case. You can create a new ticket by clicking `Create` on top of JIRA, then proceed to select the `LIBS` project and then define the ticket type. Make sure to select `app-platform` components drop-down accordingly.
