docs/scripts/start.md, before:

# d2 app scripts start

Run a live-reloading development server on localhost

> **NOTE**: This command is currently unsupported for libraries

```sh
> d2 app scripts start --help
d2-app-scripts start

Start a development server running a DHIS2 app within the DHIS2 app-shell

Global Options:
  -h, --help     Show help                                             [boolean]
  -v, --version  Show version number                                   [boolean]
  --verbose      Enable verbose messages                               [boolean]
  --debug        Enable debug messages                                 [boolean]
  --quiet        Enable quiet mode                                     [boolean]
  --config       Path to JSON config file

Options:
  --cwd       working directory to use (defaults to cwd)
  --port, -p  The port to use when running the development server       [number]
  --proxy, -P  The remote DHIS2 instance the proxy should point to      [string]
  --proxyPort  The port to use when running the proxy   [number] [default: 8080]
  --app        Start a dev server for just the app entrypoint (instead of both
               app and plugin, if this app has a plugin)               [boolean]
  --plugin     Start a dev server for just the plugin entrypoint       [boolean]
```

Commit message:

feat: handle plugins with Vite [LIBS-610] (#863)
* chore: update yarn.lock

* refactor: use Vite Node API for starting apps

* chore: extend gitignore

* feat: use Vite Node API to build apps

* feat: build & serve plugins with Vite

* chore: clean up unused "start app or plugin" logic

* chore: clean up old plugin code (yay!)

* chore: update pwa example app to jsx extensions

* chore: one more JSX

* feat: make building apps and plugins independent

* chore: update vite dependency location

* fix(deploy): support deploying plugins without an app

* chore: comment

* fix: default config type

* fix: solve clunky exit from start script with ctrl-C

* fix: handle undefined defaults

* fix: leaner caching in dev (wip)

* fix: handling 400+ & 500+ responses

* refactor: move strategies to new file

* fix: dev caching strategy

* refactor: inject `isPlugin` var at bootstrap time

* chore: delete unused static vite config

* chore: performance cost comment

* fix: print build error

* chore: comment

* fix: init boilerplate with .jsx extensions

* refactor: reorganize init boilerplate

* fix: smaller env for SW

* feat: improved logging

* feat: add host option to start command

* refactor: config parsing

* docs: add docs for --force option on start

* chore: improve comment

docs/scripts/start.md, after:

# d2 app scripts start

Run a live-reloading development server on localhost

> **NOTE**: This command is currently unsupported for libraries

```sh
> d2 app scripts start --help
d2-app-scripts start

Start a development server running a DHIS2 app within the DHIS2 app-shell

Global Options:
  -h, --help     Show help                                             [boolean]
  -v, --version  Show version number                                   [boolean]
  --verbose      Enable verbose messages                               [boolean]
  --debug        Enable debug messages                                 [boolean]
  --quiet        Enable quiet mode                                     [boolean]
  --config       Path to JSON config file

Options:
  --cwd        working directory to use (defaults to cwd)
  --force      Force updating the app shell. Normally, this is only done when a
               new version of @dhis2/cli-app-scripts is detected       [boolean]
  --port, -p   The port to use when running the development server
                                                        [number] [default: 3000]
  --proxy, -P  The remote DHIS2 instance the proxy should point to      [string]
  --proxyPort  The port to use when running the proxy   [number] [default: 8080]
  --host       Exposes the server on the local network. Can optionally provide
               an address to use. [boolean or string]
```
