docs/migration/v12.md, before:

# Platform v12 migration guide: Vite & React 18

Good news! Vite and React 18 in the app platform are ready to use!

We’re very excited for these updates — Vite will be a big upgrade from Create React App, which we used under the hood to build and serve apps previously, and it will open up some powerful new possibilities for the platform.

Here are some tips about what to expect, and how to easily upgrade to the latest version of `@dhis2/cli-app-scripts` to take advantage of Vite and React 18.

### Notable changes

These are some things that you’ll see right away:

-   It’s fast! Starting up an app is nearly instant, and building an app is about 3-4 times faster than before
-   Plugins are handled better:
    -   Start-up of both the app and plugin is nearly instant
    -   The app and plugin are run on the same port
    -   Support for a plugin without an app is improved
    -   Code is shared between entrypoints, which makes bundles smaller
    -   HMR for code changes in the plugin will be as fast as in the app
-   There’s a small suite of tools available in the CLI when running an app in dev mode:
    -   With the dev server running, press `h + enter` to see the options
    -   Options include exposing the server on LAN, opening the app in the browser, cleanly quitting the server, and restarting the dev server (which can be helpful if you’re modifying libraries in node_modules — see more below)
-   Build output summary to inspect chunks

### Future changes

With Vite, the door is open for some big future improvements:

-   Extensible config: developers can add their own options to the Vite config, for example a plugin for Flow types, or to define import aliases
-   Arbitrary entrypoints, beyond app/plugin/lib: Make a regular app, a configuration app, a capture plugin, a dashboard plugin, and more all from the same repo and sharing code between them

## Getting started

Our goal is to make it easy to adopt the new changes, so we have some tools to facilitate the process.

### Initial start

By running these steps, you should be able to run your app right away:

1. `yarn add @dhis2/app-runtime @dhis2/ui -D @dhis2/cli-app-scripts`
2. `npx yarn-deduplicate yarn.lock && yarn`
3. Try out `yarn start --allowJsxInJs`, and your app should be running 🚀

## Vite & JSX

As suggested by the `--allowJsxInJs` flag, Vite does not allow JSX syntax in files without a .jsx or .tsx extension by default; attempting to run `start` or `build` in that case will throw an error like `✘ [ERROR] The JSX syntax extension is not currently enabled`.

JSX in .js files is not supported for performance reasons: it saves needing to parse non-JSX files for JSX syntax. We can add complicated config to enable parsing of JSX in .js files, but that approach has several downsides:

1. It’s nonstandard — it is most correct to use the right file extensions
2. It requires more config to maintain
3. It has performance costs on startup and when parsing files
   The new default for `@dhis2/cli-app-scripts`, therefore, will be the same as Vite’s. To make the transition easier, though, we provide some tools to 1) support JSX in .js files temporarily, and 2) easily migrate JS files to .jsx extensions if they contain JSX syntax.

### Allow JSX in JS temporarily

To make it as fast as possible to upgrade and get up and running with Vite and React 18, we added an `--allowJsxInJs` flag that you can pass to `start` and `build` scripts, so that you can test out the changes without any file renaming. In many cases, you should be able to upgrade your platform dependencies and run `start` with the flag and see your app running! Other times, you may need to add a few tweaks — see the troubleshooting and breaking changes sections below.

Due to the downsides mentioned above, however, we will remove the `--allowJsxInJs` option in the next major version. When you are ready to rename your files, you can use the migration script we’ve made.

### .js to .jsx migration script

We made a codemod that can migrate your codebase to the right file extensions quickly! It checks .js files for JSX syntax, updates the extension if needed, then updates imports within the file tree to target the new filenames.

```sh
yarn d2-app-scripts migrate js-to-jsx
```

Check out the [script docs](../scripts/migrate/js-to-jsx.md) for options, tips, and caveats.

## React 18

In terms of the React 18-related changes, upgrading to `@dhis2/cli-app-scripts` version 12 should generally a smooth process for the consuming apps. Most of the [changes](https://react.dev/blog/2022/03/08/react-18-upgrade-guide) shouldn't affect most apps.

### Default props

The main change in React 18 that is expected to affect apps at runtime is that using `MyComponent.defaultProps = { ... }` is deprecated, and will be removed in the next major version. While non-breaking, this change comes along with warning messages in the console for every rendered component that uses them, which can be chatty and annoying.

The fix is to move prop defaults -- either to default parameters for functional components, or to a static property for class components. This code mod can help with the migration, and was used for the `@dhis2/ui` library: [transform.js](https://gist.github.com/kabaros/45ed16660ac89dc48d22e03836b1e981)

**NB!** Note that default params for functional components are computed on each render, so default values like arrays and objects as defaults may unintentionally retrigger `useEffect` and `useMemo` functions on each render. Instead, use a stable reference like so:

```js
const arr = []
const MyComponent = ({ options = arr }) => {
    /* ... */
}
```

### Tests

React 18 has minimal effects on the operation of an app in a browser, but it has a more significant effect on tests, depending on what tools are used and how the tests are written.

#### Snapshots

When the tests are up and running, you can expect some small changes from React 18. You may see changed classnames and different whitespace; these shouldn't cause any functional changes, and they're safe to approve.

#### React Testing Library

Testing-library supports React 18 since v13, so the first step is to upgrade that library and the supporting libraries around it. These major versions bumps come with a few breaking changes that we will document here with some examples to make migration easier.

Examples come from the migration for the Aggregate Data Entry app; you can check out the PR [here](https://github.com/dhis2/aggregate-data-entry-app/pull/396) for more examples in context.

##### `userEvent`

`userEvent` is async now in `@testing-library/user-event`. Check the [release notes](https://github.com/testing-library/user-event/releases/tag/v14.0.0) for an idea of the improvements and new API.

In practice, this means mostly that you'd need to add an `await` for `userEvent` interactions like `userEvent.click()`:

```diff
+ import userEvent from '@testing-library/user-event'

- it('should allow re-running validation', () => {
+ // Make the function async:
+ it('should allow re-running validation', async () => {
    // ...

-   userEvent.click(getByText('Run validation again'))
-   // Or this other form:
-   fireEvent.click(getByText('Run validation again'))
+   // Now that it's asynchronous, await the event:
+   await userEvent.click(getByText('Run validation again'))

    await findByText('2 medium priority alerts')
    expect(queryByText('There was a problem running validation')).toBeNull()
})
```

##### `renderHook`

`renderHook` is not a separate library anymore; it is part of the `@testing-library/react`, and it has [quite a different API](https://testing-library.com/docs/react-testing-library/api/#renderhook). (NB: Some docs online still point to the old version, which can be confusing.)

-   Use `import { renderHook } from '@testing-library/react'` instead of `import { renderHook } from '@testing-library/react-hooks`
-   The [return type](https://testing-library.com/docs/react-testing-library/api/#renderhook-result) for renderHook is different. One major difference is the absence of `waitForNextUpdate` returned from `renderHook`. Now it can be replaced with the `waitFor` from `@testing-library`, and adding an expectation to wait for, for example.
-   Testing hooks that throw errors is different. Use `expect(renderHook(() => { ... })).toThrow(....)`

This example demonstrates some of the changes:

```diff
- import { renderHook } from '@testing-library/react-hooks'
+ // Update import, and include waitFor:
+ import { renderHook, waitFor } from '@testing-library/react'
import React from 'react'
import { useRootOrgData } from './use-root-org-data.js'

it('should provide the org unit data', async () => {
-   const { result, waitForNextUpdate } = renderHook(
-       () => useRootOrgData(['A0000000000']),
-       { wrapper }
-   )
+   // waitForNextUpdate is no longer part of the result:
+   const { result } = renderHook(() => useRootOrgData(['A0000000000']), {
+       wrapper,
+   })

-   await waitForNextUpdate()
+   // Instead, use waitFor:
+   await waitFor(() => {})
    // ...
})
```

In some cases, `renderHookResult.waitFor` can just be removed and doesn't need replacing:

```diff
it('should update validationToRefresh', async () => {
-   const { result, waitFor } = renderHook(useValidationStore)
+   const { result } = renderHook(useValidationStore)

    act(() => {
        result.current.setValidationToRefresh(true)
    })

-   await waitFor(() => {
-       expect(result.current.getValidationToRefresh()).toBe(true)
-   })
+   expect(result.current.getValidationToRefresh()).toBe(true)
})
```

And testing errors:

```diff
it('throws an error when passing both a client- and a serverDate', async () => {
    const clientDate = new Date('2022-10-13 10:00:00')
    const serverDate = new Date('2022-10-13 08:00:00')
-   const { result } = renderHook(() =>
-       useClientServerDate({ clientDate, serverDate })
-   )
-   expect(result.error).toEqual(
-       new Error(
-           '`useClientServerDate` does not accept both a client and a server date'
-       )

+   expect(() => {
+       renderHook(() => useClientServerDate({ clientDate, serverDate }))
+   }).toThrow(
+       '`useClientServerDate` does not accept both a client and a server date'
+   )
})
```

##### Fake timers

Faking timers can help with tests that seem to fail with concurrency issues:

```diff
describe('<Comment />', () => {
+   // Set up fake timers:
+   beforeEach(() => {
+       jest.useFakeTimers
+   })

    afterEach(() => {
        // ...
    })

    it('shows a loading indicator when submitting a comment change', async () => {
        // ...

-       const { getByRole, queryByRole } = render(<Comment item={item} />)
+       const { getByRole, queryByRole, findByRole } = render(
+           <Comment item={item} />
+       )

-       userEvent.click(getByRole('button', { name: 'Edit comment' }))
+       const editButton = await findByRole('button', { name: 'Edit comment' })
+       // Set up user event with fake timers:
+       const user = userEvent.setup({
+           advanceTimers: jest.advanceTimersByTime,
+       })
+       await user.click(editButton)

        // ...

        expect(queryByRole('progressbar')).not.toBeInTheDocument()
-       userEvent.click(getByRole('button', { name: 'Save comment' }))
-       expect(getByRole('progressbar')).toBeInTheDocument()
+       // Use the setup from above:
+       const btnSaveComment = await findByRole('button', {
+           name: 'Save comment',
+       })
+       await user.click(btnSaveComment)
+       await findByRole('progressbar')
    })
})
```

#### Enzyme

Enzyme is [considered dead](https://dev.to/wojtekmaj/enzyme-is-dead-now-what-ekl): there is no official adapter for React 18 (or 17), so it's best to [migrate to React Testing Library](https://testing-library.com/docs/react-testing-library/migrate-from-enzyme/) for tests, if possible.

If it's not currently possible to migrate, there is an [unofficial React 18 adapter](https://github.com/cfaester/enzyme-adapter-react-18) that can help in the mean time.

## Troubleshooting & tips

-   There is a bug in Vite: importing from a directory, e.g. `‘./app/‘` where we would assume to get `./app/index.[jt]s`, can incorrectly resolve to a file with a similar name to the directory, e.g. `./App.tsx`. I see this as a bug with Vite, but as a workaround, file and dir names can be changed so they don’t conflict. Noticed in the Maintenance app beta.
-   If you’re using `identity-obj-proxy` in your test config, make sure you add it to the project’s dependencies. Previously, some apps got away with using the proxy without an explicitid dependency because the package is a dependency of `react-scripts`
-   You may see some build warnings coming from the `mathjs` package. Upgrading to a recent version of `mathjs` will handle these warnings. Noticed in analytics app (the analytics library has a dependency on `mathjs`)

### Summary of breaking changes

1. Node 18 || 20+ is required
2. JSX in files without .jsx or .tsx extensions is not supported by default
3. React 18: Most significant testing changes are described above; the rest can be read about in the React [migration guide](https://react.dev/blog/2022/03/08/react-18-upgrade-guide)
4. Flow types won’t work, although this is a motivator for extensible config
5. Import aliases will likely break (also a motivator for extensible config)
6. `global.variableName` is no longer supported; use `window.variableName` instead
7. In order to make the dev server available on LAN, the `--host` flag needs to be passed to the start script
8. Workers imported in the “webpack” way will need to be imported in a new way: [docs](https://vitejs.dev/guide/features.html#web-workers)
9. App.jsx entrypoint is no longer quietly added if a plugin entrypoint is defined or for a defined but empty entrypoints object
10. Plugins and apps are started together in the same process on the same port
11. The `PORT` env var is removed
12. `import * as MyClass from ‘my-module’` is now more restrictive, and may break in some cases. So far, changing the import to `import MyClass from ‘my-module’` has fixed it. DOMPurify is one example case, noticed in the Login App

### Deprecations

-   Environment variables on `process.env` will be dropped in future versions, in favor of variables on `import.meta.env`
-   The default `direction` config value is `ltr`; in the future, it will be `auto`
-   `--allowJsxInJs` will be removed
-   some niche PWA config caching option names will be removed

Commit message:

docs: mention fireEvent to userEvent change

docs/migration/v12.md, after:

# Platform v12 migration guide: Vite & React 18

Good news! Vite and React 18 in the app platform are ready to use!

We’re very excited for these updates — Vite will be a big upgrade from Create React App, which we used under the hood to build and serve apps previously, and it will open up some powerful new possibilities for the platform.

Here are some tips about what to expect, and how to easily upgrade to the latest version of `@dhis2/cli-app-scripts` to take advantage of Vite and React 18.

### Notable changes

These are some things that you’ll see right away:

-   It’s fast! Starting up an app is nearly instant, and building an app is about 3-4 times faster than before
-   Plugins are handled better:
    -   Start-up of both the app and plugin is nearly instant
    -   The app and plugin are run on the same port
    -   Support for a plugin without an app is improved
    -   Code is shared between entrypoints, which makes bundles smaller
    -   HMR for code changes in the plugin will be as fast as in the app
-   There’s a small suite of tools available in the CLI when running an app in dev mode:
    -   With the dev server running, press `h + enter` to see the options
    -   Options include exposing the server on LAN, opening the app in the browser, cleanly quitting the server, and restarting the dev server (which can be helpful if you’re modifying libraries in node_modules — see more below)
-   Build output summary to inspect chunks

### Future changes

With Vite, the door is open for some big future improvements:

-   Extensible config: developers can add their own options to the Vite config, for example a plugin for Flow types, or to define import aliases
-   Arbitrary entrypoints, beyond app/plugin/lib: Make a regular app, a configuration app, a capture plugin, a dashboard plugin, and more all from the same repo and sharing code between them

## Getting started

Our goal is to make it easy to adopt the new changes, so we have some tools to facilitate the process.

### Initial start

By running these steps, you should be able to run your app right away:

1. `yarn add @dhis2/app-runtime @dhis2/ui -D @dhis2/cli-app-scripts`
2. `npx yarn-deduplicate yarn.lock && yarn`
3. Try out `yarn start --allowJsxInJs`, and your app should be running 🚀

## Vite & JSX

As suggested by the `--allowJsxInJs` flag, Vite does not allow JSX syntax in files without a .jsx or .tsx extension by default; attempting to run `start` or `build` in that case will throw an error like `✘ [ERROR] The JSX syntax extension is not currently enabled`.

JSX in .js files is not supported for performance reasons: it saves needing to parse non-JSX files for JSX syntax. We can add complicated config to enable parsing of JSX in .js files, but that approach has several downsides:

1. It’s nonstandard — it is most correct to use the right file extensions
2. It requires more config to maintain
3. It has performance costs on startup and when parsing files
   The new default for `@dhis2/cli-app-scripts`, therefore, will be the same as Vite’s. To make the transition easier, though, we provide some tools to 1) support JSX in .js files temporarily, and 2) easily migrate JS files to .jsx extensions if they contain JSX syntax.

### Allow JSX in JS temporarily

To make it as fast as possible to upgrade and get up and running with Vite and React 18, we added an `--allowJsxInJs` flag that you can pass to `start` and `build` scripts, so that you can test out the changes without any file renaming. In many cases, you should be able to upgrade your platform dependencies and run `start` with the flag and see your app running! Other times, you may need to add a few tweaks — see the troubleshooting and breaking changes sections below.

Due to the downsides mentioned above, however, we will remove the `--allowJsxInJs` option in the next major version. When you are ready to rename your files, you can use the migration script we’ve made.

### .js to .jsx migration script

We made a codemod that can migrate your codebase to the right file extensions quickly! It checks .js files for JSX syntax, updates the extension if needed, then updates imports within the file tree to target the new filenames.

```sh
yarn d2-app-scripts migrate js-to-jsx
```

Check out the [script docs](../scripts/migrate/js-to-jsx.md) for options, tips, and caveats.

## React 18

In terms of the React 18-related changes, upgrading to `@dhis2/cli-app-scripts` version 12 should generally a smooth process for the consuming apps. Most of the [changes](https://react.dev/blog/2022/03/08/react-18-upgrade-guide) shouldn't affect most apps.

### Default props

The main change in React 18 that is expected to affect apps at runtime is that using `MyComponent.defaultProps = { ... }` is deprecated, and will be removed in the next major version. While non-breaking, this change comes along with warning messages in the console for every rendered component that uses them, which can be chatty and annoying.

The fix is to move prop defaults -- either to default parameters for functional components, or to a static property for class components. This code mod can help with the migration, and was used for the `@dhis2/ui` library: [transform.js](https://gist.github.com/kabaros/45ed16660ac89dc48d22e03836b1e981)

**NB!** Note that default params for functional components are computed on each render, so default values like arrays and objects as defaults may unintentionally retrigger `useEffect` and `useMemo` functions on each render. Instead, use a stable reference like so:

```js
const arr = []
const MyComponent = ({ options = arr }) => {
    /* ... */
}
```

### Tests

React 18 has minimal effects on the operation of an app in a browser, but it has a more significant effect on tests, depending on what tools are used and how the tests are written.

#### Snapshots

When the tests are up and running, you can expect some small changes from React 18. You may see changed classnames and different whitespace; these shouldn't cause any functional changes, and they're safe to approve.

#### React Testing Library

Testing-library supports React 18 since v13, so the first step is to upgrade that library and the supporting libraries around it. These major versions bumps come with a few breaking changes that we will document here with some examples to make migration easier.

Examples come from the migration for the Aggregate Data Entry app; you can check out the PR [here](https://github.com/dhis2/aggregate-data-entry-app/pull/396) for more examples in context.

##### `userEvent`

`userEvent` is async now in `@testing-library/user-event`. Check the [release notes](https://github.com/testing-library/user-event/releases/tag/v14.0.0) for an idea of the improvements and new API. In practice, this means mostly that you'd need to add an `await` for `userEvent` interactions like `userEvent.click()`.

Actions using the `fireEvent` API should also be migrated to `userEvent`, e.g. `fireEvent.change(selector(), { target: { value: 'input text' } })` should be changed to `userEvent.type(selector(), 'input text')`.

Here are some examples that illustrate the changes:

```diff
+ import userEvent from '@testing-library/user-event'

- it('should allow re-running validation', () => {
+ // Make the function async:
+ it('should allow re-running validation', async () => {
    // ...

-   userEvent.click(getByText('Run validation again'))
-   // Or this other form:
-   fireEvent.click(getByText('Run validation again'))
+   // Now that it's asynchronous, await the event:
+   await userEvent.click(getByText('Run validation again'))

    await findByText('2 medium priority alerts')
    expect(queryByText('There was a problem running validation')).toBeNull()
})
```

```diff
- const login = async ({ user }) => {
+ // Don't need `user`; will use `userEvent` later:
+ const login = async () => {
-   // Remove fireEvent calls:
-   fireEvent.change(screen.getByLabelText('Username'), {
-       target: { value: 'Fl@klypa.no' },
-   })
-   fireEvent.change(screen.getByLabelText('Password'), {
-       target: { value: 'SolanOgLudvig' },
-   })
+   // Replace with userEvent.type():
+   await userEvent.type(screen.getByLabelText('Username'), 'Fl@klypa.no')
+   await userEvent.type(screen.getByLabelText('Password'), 'SolanOgLudvig')

-   await user.click(screen.getByRole('button', { name: /log in/i }))
+   // Replace `user` with `userEvent`:
+   await userEvent.click(screen.getByRole('button', { name: /log in/i }))
}
```

##### `renderHook`

`renderHook` is not a separate library anymore; it is part of the `@testing-library/react`, and it has [quite a different API](https://testing-library.com/docs/react-testing-library/api/#renderhook). (NB: Some docs online still point to the old version, which can be confusing.)

-   Use `import { renderHook } from '@testing-library/react'` instead of `import { renderHook } from '@testing-library/react-hooks`
-   The [return type](https://testing-library.com/docs/react-testing-library/api/#renderhook-result) for renderHook is different. One major difference is the absence of `waitForNextUpdate` returned from `renderHook`. Now it can be replaced with the `waitFor` from `@testing-library`, and adding an expectation to wait for, for example.
-   Testing hooks that throw errors is different. Use `expect(renderHook(() => { ... })).toThrow(....)`

This example demonstrates some of the changes:

```diff
- import { renderHook } from '@testing-library/react-hooks'
+ // Update import, and include waitFor:
+ import { renderHook, waitFor } from '@testing-library/react'
import React from 'react'
import { useRootOrgData } from './use-root-org-data.js'

it('should provide the org unit data', async () => {
-   const { result, waitForNextUpdate } = renderHook(
-       () => useRootOrgData(['A0000000000']),
-       { wrapper }
-   )
+   // waitForNextUpdate is no longer part of the result:
+   const { result } = renderHook(() => useRootOrgData(['A0000000000']), {
+       wrapper,
+   })

-   await waitForNextUpdate()
+   // Instead, use waitFor:
+   await waitFor(() => {})
    // ...
})
```

In some cases, `renderHookResult.waitFor` can just be removed and doesn't need replacing:

```diff
it('should update validationToRefresh', async () => {
-   const { result, waitFor } = renderHook(useValidationStore)
+   const { result } = renderHook(useValidationStore)

    act(() => {
        result.current.setValidationToRefresh(true)
    })

-   await waitFor(() => {
-       expect(result.current.getValidationToRefresh()).toBe(true)
-   })
+   expect(result.current.getValidationToRefresh()).toBe(true)
})
```

And testing errors:

```diff
it('throws an error when passing both a client- and a serverDate', async () => {
    const clientDate = new Date('2022-10-13 10:00:00')
    const serverDate = new Date('2022-10-13 08:00:00')
-   const { result } = renderHook(() =>
-       useClientServerDate({ clientDate, serverDate })
-   )
-   expect(result.error).toEqual(
-       new Error(
-           '`useClientServerDate` does not accept both a client and a server date'
-       )

+   expect(() => {
+       renderHook(() => useClientServerDate({ clientDate, serverDate }))
+   }).toThrow(
+       '`useClientServerDate` does not accept both a client and a server date'
+   )
})
```

##### Fake timers

Faking timers can help with tests that seem to fail with concurrency issues:

```diff
describe('<Comment />', () => {
+   // Set up fake timers:
+   beforeEach(() => {
+       jest.useFakeTimers
+   })

    afterEach(() => {
        // ...
    })

    it('shows a loading indicator when submitting a comment change', async () => {
        // ...

-       const { getByRole, queryByRole } = render(<Comment item={item} />)
+       const { getByRole, queryByRole, findByRole } = render(
+           <Comment item={item} />
+       )

-       userEvent.click(getByRole('button', { name: 'Edit comment' }))
+       const editButton = await findByRole('button', { name: 'Edit comment' })
+       // Set up user event with fake timers:
+       const user = userEvent.setup({
+           advanceTimers: jest.advanceTimersByTime,
+       })
+       await user.click(editButton)

        // ...

        expect(queryByRole('progressbar')).not.toBeInTheDocument()
-       userEvent.click(getByRole('button', { name: 'Save comment' }))
-       expect(getByRole('progressbar')).toBeInTheDocument()
+       // Use the setup from above:
+       const btnSaveComment = await findByRole('button', {
+           name: 'Save comment',
+       })
+       await user.click(btnSaveComment)
+       await findByRole('progressbar')
    })
})
```

#### Enzyme

Enzyme is [considered dead](https://dev.to/wojtekmaj/enzyme-is-dead-now-what-ekl): there is no official adapter for React 18 (or 17), so it's best to [migrate to React Testing Library](https://testing-library.com/docs/react-testing-library/migrate-from-enzyme/) for tests, if possible.

If it's not currently possible to migrate, there is an [unofficial React 18 adapter](https://github.com/cfaester/enzyme-adapter-react-18) that can help in the mean time.

## Troubleshooting & tips

-   There is a bug in Vite: importing from a directory, e.g. `‘./app/‘` where we would assume to get `./app/index.[jt]s`, can incorrectly resolve to a file with a similar name to the directory, e.g. `./App.tsx`. I see this as a bug with Vite, but as a workaround, file and dir names can be changed so they don’t conflict. Noticed in the Maintenance app beta.
-   If you’re using `identity-obj-proxy` in your test config, make sure you add it to the project’s dependencies. Previously, some apps got away with using the proxy without an explicitid dependency because the package is a dependency of `react-scripts`
-   You may see some build warnings coming from the `mathjs` package. Upgrading to a recent version of `mathjs` will handle these warnings. Noticed in analytics app (the analytics library has a dependency on `mathjs`)

### Summary of breaking changes

1. Node 18 || 20+ is required
2. JSX in files without .jsx or .tsx extensions is not supported by default
3. React 18: Most significant testing changes are described above; the rest can be read about in the React [migration guide](https://react.dev/blog/2022/03/08/react-18-upgrade-guide)
4. Flow types won’t work, although this is a motivator for extensible config
5. Import aliases will likely break (also a motivator for extensible config)
6. `global.variableName` is no longer supported; use `window.variableName` instead
7. In order to make the dev server available on LAN, the `--host` flag needs to be passed to the start script
8. Workers imported in the “webpack” way will need to be imported in a new way: [docs](https://vitejs.dev/guide/features.html#web-workers)
9. App.jsx entrypoint is no longer quietly added if a plugin entrypoint is defined or for a defined but empty entrypoints object
10. Plugins and apps are started together in the same process on the same port
11. The `PORT` env var is removed
12. `import * as MyClass from ‘my-module’` is now more restrictive, and may break in some cases. So far, changing the import to `import MyClass from ‘my-module’` has fixed it. DOMPurify is one example case, noticed in the Login App

### Deprecations

-   Environment variables on `process.env` will be dropped in future versions, in favor of variables on `import.meta.env`
-   The default `direction` config value is `ltr`; in the future, it will be `auto`
-   `--allowJsxInJs` will be removed
-   some niche PWA config caching option names will be removed
