docs/scripts/migrate/js-to-jsx.md, before:

# d2-app-scripts migrate js-to-jsx

Converts files with `.js` extensions to `.jsx` if the file contains JSX syntax. This is intended as a helper for moving `@dhis2/cli-app-scripts` to Vite, which prefers files to be named as such to avoid unnecessarily parsing vanilla JS files for JSX syntax.

## Example

This should usually be run from the root directory of a project.

```sh
yarn d2-app-scripts migrate js-to-jsx
```

This will:

1. Update all `.js` files in the `src` directory with JSX syntax to `.jsx` extensions
2. Update any imports that target those files to the new filenames
3. Update `.js.snap` filenames appropriately, so the contents can still be used for snapshot comparisons
4. Update `d2.config.js` entry points values if they have been renamed

:::note[Source control tip]

**This may update a _lot_ of files**; be prepared with your source control to undo changes if needed. In VSCode, for example, there is a feature in the Source Control UI to "Discard All Changes" from unstaged files. Before running the script, stage the files you want to keep around, then run the script. If the outcome isn't what you want, you can use the "Discard All Changes" option to undo them easily.

Note that renamed files are only kept track of during script execution. If, for example, you run the script, then you want to redo it with the [`--skipUpdatingImportsWithoutExtension`](#--skipupdatingimportswithoutextension) flag described below, it's best to undo all the renamed files before running the script again.

:::

## Details

### Crawling files

By default, this will crawl through each `.js` file in the `src` directory (using the glob `src/**/*.js`), look for JSX syntax in the file, then rename the file to use a `.jsx` extension if appropriate.

The script uses the `src/**/*.js` glob by default. If you want to crawl different directories, for example to migrate smaller pieces of a project at a time, you can specify a custom glob when running the script using the [`--globString` option](#--globstring).

### Updating imports

The script will then crawl through all `.js` _and_ `.jsx` files in `src` (or according to the provided glob string) and update file imports to match the newly renamed files.

**By default, this will update imports without a file extension**, e.g. `import Component from './Component'` => `import Component from './Component.jsx'`. This is because, in testing, updating files to `.jsx` extensions without updating the imports ends up causing linting errors. Functionally, the app will still work without extensions on imports though; Vite handles it. **If you don't want to update imports without extensions**, you can use the [`--skipUpdatingImportsWithoutExtension` flag](#--skipupdatingimportswithoutextension) when running this script.

### Updating snapshot files

The script crawls through `.snap` files, and if the test file that created that snapshot has been renamed, the snapshot file name will be updated too. This ensures that the snapshots will still be useful, instead of needing to be created from scratch the base test file has been renamed.

This step assumes that snapshot files are saved at `./__snapshots__/<testFileName>.snap`, relative to the test file that created them.

### Updating `d2.config.js`

Lastly, the script will check `d2.config.js` in the CWD for entry points to update if the respective files have been renamed. Using a custom glob string won't affect where the script looks for `d2.config.js`, the script won't cause an error if one isn't found.

## Options

### `--globString`

The script will crawl through files using the `src/**/*.js` glob by default. If you want to crawl different directories, for example to migrate smaller pieces of a project at a time, you can specify a custom glob when running the script.

Since imports will only be updated within the scope of that glob, a directory that exports its contents through an `index.js` file is an ideal choice.

Example:

```sh
yarn d2-app-scripts migrate js-to-jsx --globString "src/components/**/*.js"
```

Since the glob string will be reused and manipulated by the script, **make sure to use quotes** around the argument so that the shell doesn't handle it as a normal glob.

Contents of `node_modules` directories will always be ignored. `d2.config.js` will still be sought out in the CWD, but won't cause an error if one is not found.

### `--skipUpdatingImportsWithoutExtension`

Instead of adding `.jsx` extensions to imports without any extension, e.g. `import Component from './Component'` => `import Component from './Component.jsx'`, leave those imports alone. This may be relevant to repositories using TypeScript, for example.

Note that updating file imports in this script is based on state that tracks which files have been changed; if you want to redo the script with this option, you should undo _all_ the changes from the script and run it again from the initial starting point of the repository.

Example:

```sh
yarn d2-app-scripts migrate js-to-jsx --skipUpdatingImportsWithoutExtension
```

## Usage

```sh
> d2-app-scripts migrate js-to-jsx --help
d2-app-scripts migrate js-to-jsx

Renames .js files that include JSX to .jsx. Also handles file imports and
d2.config.js

Global Options:
  -h, --help     Show help                                             [boolean]
  -v, --version  Show version number                                   [boolean]
  --verbose      Enable verbose messages                               [boolean]
  --debug        Enable debug messages                                 [boolean]
  --quiet        Enable quiet mode                                     [boolean]
  --config       Path to JSON config file

Options:
  --cwd                                  working directory to use (defaults to
                                         cwd)
  --skipUpdatingImportsWithoutExtension  Normally, this script will update
                                         `import './App'` to `import
                                         './App.jsx'`. Use this flag to skip
                                         adding the extension in this case.
                                         Imports that already end with .js will
                                         still be updated to .jsx
                                                      [boolean] [default: false]
  --globString                           Glob string to use for finding files to
                                         parse, rename, and update imports. It
                                         will be manipulated by the script, so
                                         it must end with .js, and make sure to
                                         use quotes around this argument to keep
                                         it a string
                                               [string] [default: "src/**/*.js"]
```

Commit message:

docs: add known caveats to js-to-jsx

docs/scripts/migrate/js-to-jsx.md, after:

# d2-app-scripts migrate js-to-jsx

Converts files with `.js` extensions to `.jsx` if the file contains JSX syntax. This is intended as a helper for moving `@dhis2/cli-app-scripts` to Vite, which prefers files to be named as such to avoid unnecessarily parsing vanilla JS files for JSX syntax.

## Example

This should usually be run from the root directory of a project.

```sh
yarn d2-app-scripts migrate js-to-jsx
```

This will:

1. Update all `.js` files in the `src` directory with JSX syntax to `.jsx` extensions
2. Update any imports that target those files to the new filenames
3. Update `.js.snap` filenames appropriately, so the contents can still be used for snapshot comparisons
4. Update `d2.config.js` entry points values if they have been renamed

:::note[Source control tip]

**This may update a _lot_ of files**; be prepared with your source control to undo changes if needed. In VSCode, for example, there is a feature in the Source Control UI to "Discard All Changes" from unstaged files. Before running the script, stage the files you want to keep around, then run the script. If the outcome isn't what you want, you can use the "Discard All Changes" option to undo them easily.

Note that renamed files are only kept track of during script execution. If, for example, you run the script, then you want to redo it with the [`--skipUpdatingImportsWithoutExtension`](#--skipupdatingimportswithoutextension) flag described below, it's best to undo all the renamed files before running the script again.

:::

## Known caveats

Some file paths used in other ways will not be updated, for example in a Jest module mock declaration:

```js
jest.mock('../../ItemHeader/DeleteItemButton.js')
```

These tend to be few in number and easy to identify, so shouldn't pose much of a problem to change.

## Details

### Crawling files

By default, this will crawl through each `.js` file in the `src` directory (using the glob `src/**/*.js`), look for JSX syntax in the file, then rename the file to use a `.jsx` extension if appropriate.

The script uses the `src/**/*.js` glob by default. If you want to crawl different directories, for example to migrate smaller pieces of a project at a time, you can specify a custom glob when running the script using the [`--globString` option](#--globstring).

### Updating imports

The script will then crawl through all `.js` _and_ `.jsx` files in `src` (or according to the provided glob string) and update file imports to match the newly renamed files.

**By default, this will update imports without a file extension**, e.g. `import Component from './Component'` => `import Component from './Component.jsx'`. This is because, in testing, updating files to `.jsx` extensions without updating the imports ends up causing linting errors. Functionally, the app will still work without extensions on imports though; Vite handles it. **If you don't want to update imports without extensions**, you can use the [`--skipUpdatingImportsWithoutExtension` flag](#--skipupdatingimportswithoutextension) when running this script.

### Updating snapshot files

The script crawls through `.snap` files, and if the test file that created that snapshot has been renamed, the snapshot file name will be updated too. This ensures that the snapshots will still be useful, instead of needing to be created from scratch the base test file has been renamed.

This step assumes that snapshot files are saved at `./__snapshots__/<testFileName>.snap`, relative to the test file that created them.

### Updating `d2.config.js`

Lastly, the script will check `d2.config.js` in the CWD for entry points to update if the respective files have been renamed. Using a custom glob string won't affect where the script looks for `d2.config.js`, the script won't cause an error if one isn't found.

## Options

### `--globString`

The script will crawl through files using the `src/**/*.js` glob by default. If you want to crawl different directories, for example to migrate smaller pieces of a project at a time, you can specify a custom glob when running the script.

Since imports will only be updated within the scope of that glob, a directory that exports its contents through an `index.js` file is an ideal choice.

Example:

```sh
yarn d2-app-scripts migrate js-to-jsx --globString "src/components/**/*.js"
```

Since the glob string will be reused and manipulated by the script, **make sure to use quotes** around the argument so that the shell doesn't handle it as a normal glob.

Contents of `node_modules` directories will always be ignored. `d2.config.js` will still be sought out in the CWD, but won't cause an error if one is not found.

### `--skipUpdatingImportsWithoutExtension`

Instead of adding `.jsx` extensions to imports without any extension, e.g. `import Component from './Component'` => `import Component from './Component.jsx'`, leave those imports alone. This may be relevant to repositories using TypeScript, for example.

Note that updating file imports in this script is based on state that tracks which files have been changed; if you want to redo the script with this option, you should undo _all_ the changes from the script and run it again from the initial starting point of the repository.

Example:

```sh
yarn d2-app-scripts migrate js-to-jsx --skipUpdatingImportsWithoutExtension
```

## Usage

```sh
> d2-app-scripts migrate js-to-jsx --help
d2-app-scripts migrate js-to-jsx

Renames .js files that include JSX to .jsx. Also handles file imports and
d2.config.js

Global Options:
  -h, --help     Show help                                             [boolean]
  -v, --version  Show version number                                   [boolean]
  --verbose      Enable verbose messages                               [boolean]
  --debug        Enable debug messages                                 [boolean]
  --quiet        Enable quiet mode                                     [boolean]
  --config       Path to JSON config file

Options:
  --cwd                                  working directory to use (defaults to
                                         cwd)
  --skipUpdatingImportsWithoutExtension  Normally, this script will update
                                         `import './App'` to `import
                                         './App.jsx'`. Use this flag to skip
                                         adding the extension in this case.
                                         Imports that already end with .js will
                                         still be updated to .jsx
                                                      [boolean] [default: false]
  --globString                           Glob string to use for finding files to
                                         parse, rename, and update imports. It
                                         will be manipulated by the script, so
                                         it must end with .js, and make sure to
                                         use quotes around this argument to keep
                                         it a string
                                               [string] [default: "src/**/*.js"]
```
